---
layout: post
title: "Journal #Five [RES701] - Action Research"
author: Hayden Williams
categories:
  - RES701
  - Journal
  - Action Research
image: assets/images/RES701-J5.jpg
featured: true
hidden: true
published: true
---

# Action Research

Action Research is a methodology that is generally applied to the social sciences. It aims for transformative change via the simultaneous processes of taking action and doing research, which is then summarised with critical reflection.
Action Research in Organisational Development is the most applicable variant for an IT workspace.
The set order that the action research cycle takes is:

- Planning in order to initiate change
- Implementing the change (acting) and observing the process of implementation and consequences
- Reflecting on processes of change and re-planning
- Acting and observing
- Reflecting

## The Process

The process is broken into three major steps: Input, Transformation and Results.

The Input stage involves planning with preliminary diagnoses, data gathering, feedback of results and Action Planning.

The Transformation stage involves learning processes relevant to the organisation, more action planning and forming steps to perform the Action.

The Results stage involves summary via critical reflection; changes in behaviour of the system or its participants are analysed, data is gathered, and measurement of change is taken.

The Transformation and Output stages have the opportunity for a feedback loop; if the Action stage finds that more analysis and planning is necessary due to gaps in understanding then the processes are investigated again, and the Action steps may be modified.

Similarly, if the Results stage shows that little was gained, then more Action, or more Planning is needed.
A fitting application of Action Research for IT is the Change Management discipline of the Unified Process.
Action Research and the Unified Process are both iterative approaches, and a project following the Unified Process while employing Action Research for Change Management may improve on existing processes greatly.
Action Research may not be applicable to projects for new products following the Unified Process.

## Strengths and Weaknesses

### The weaknesses of action research are:

- Difficulties in distinguishing between action and research and ensure the application of both;
- Delays in completion of action research due to a wide range of reasons are not rare occurrences
- Lack of repeatability and rigour

### The strengths of action research are:

- High level of practical relevance of the business research;
- Can be used with quantitative, as well as, qualitative data;
- Possibility to gain in-depth knowledge about the problem.

## Different Approaches

Positivist approach to action research, also known as ‘classical action research’ perceives research as a social experiment. Accordingly, action research is accepted as a method to test hypotheses in a real world environment.

Interpretive action research, also known as ‘contemporary action research’ perceives business reality as socially constructed and focuses on specifications of local and organisational factors when conducting the action research.

Critical action research is a specific type of action research that adopts critical approach towards business processes and aims for improvements.

Action Research - Research-Methodology. Research-Methodology. (2021). Retrieved 9 April 2021, from https://research-methodology.net/research-methods/action-research/.
