---
layout: post
title:  "Journal #One [RES701] - Research" 
author: Hayden Williams
categories: [ RES701, Journal, Research ]
image: assets/images/DES501-J2.jpeg
featured: true
hidden: true
---

# What do I think research is?
Research is how to find out information on a certain topic; Research can also be a study of a topic/subject in a specific area. This can be used to discover new information or to re-teach old information known. Research is always conducted with a specific purpose in mind; for example, in a business scenario you might want to research to find out new potential, untapped, sectors of a market. 

Research follows some structure or plan; you want to collect accurate and relevant data to your purpose; you want to also be able to draw some form of conclusion from this research. You do not want to end up with a bunch of information that is not able to be condensed down. Alongside this there is an analysis side of things, which is how you derive your observations and conclusions. 

There are three different purposes of research: Exploratory, Descriptive and Explanatory. 

   Exploratory is where the research has an exploration focus, these are done, mostly, through a series of questions. There may not be a specific conclusion or solution offered by exploratory research, it mostly leads to handle problem areas that have not been foreseen. Exploratory is more of a foundational form of research, from this other research and data collection can be done.
    
   Descriptive is focused on expanding knowledge on a currently known issue, mostly through some form of data collection. Descriptive describes behaviour of a population. There are three primary purposes for a descriptive research technique: describing, explaining, and validating. It is different from the exploratory approach, which is more focused on the future, whereas this is more focused on the present and or past. 
   
   Explanatory is also known as casual research; this focuses on impact of change in existing procedures. This could be more test/experiment focused, in which you would perform a series of large tests on groups of people.
    
There are two main types of research method: Qualitative and Quantitative. Qualitative collects information through conversational methods, usually open-ended questions. It then collects the responses and then the researcher will draw conclusions as to what the participants are thinking and why they are thinking it. The types of qualitative methods are: One-to-one interview, focus groups, ethnographic studies, text analysis, and case studies.
Quantitative methods are more numbers focused. This is used as a systematic way of looking into events or data. It wants to look at relationships between things and identify variables to explain, predict, or control something. Types of quantitative methods are survey research, descriptive research, and correlational research.

Reference: What is Research- Definition, Types, Methods & Examples. (2021). Retrieved 3 March 2021, from https://www.questionpro.com/blog/what-is-research/ 

# Do I think I will ever need research skills?
I definitely think that every single person will use research at least once in their lives; it is a vastly important tool and I have already used it more times than I can count. It is especially useful in an academic sense and I have used it all throughout my schooling, I have even had to do some research just for this blog. In the future I will absolutely need to research more, at this point it is almost part of everyday life, it helps to inform your decisions; whether that be where to go for dinner or even what the best next phone you are going to get. It allows us to make logical and well-informed decisions based on evidence and logic, even if some of it is based on anecdotal evidence.

# What do I think a research journal is and who do you think they are written for?
A research journal is a type of peer reviewed article, written in the form of a journal. These peer reviewers read over the articles before they are published to confirm that the journal is correct and should be published. The purpose of a research journal is to provide information on any form of intellectual topic. 
Mainly research journals are used in academic fields, such as university, whether that be undergraduate or graduate students. They are especially useful to know what is going on in their area of study, it gives them relevant and the latest knowledge in their field. They allow for a line of communication between wide areas of one field; they allow for sharing of that information over vast distances, e.g., someone in Wellington will be able to access information from Dunedin. 

Reference: What Is a Research Journal Article? Synonym. (2021). Retrieved 3 March 2021, from https://classroom.synonym.com/research-journal-article-5656918.html 

# What is plagiarism?
Plagiarism is where there is copying of someone else’s work/intellectual property. To plagiarise could mean to: Pass off someone else’s idea or words and ones one, to use another work without crediting whose work it is, commit literary theft, presenting an existing idea or product as a new one or as your own. Plagiarism is both the stealing of someone else’s work and then lying about it after the fact, there is normally a deceitful intent with plagiarism. 

Plagiarism is:
	Turning in someone else’s work as your own.
	Not crediting whose work is being used.
	Not putting quotations around a direct quote.
	Being deceitful with the origin of the quotation.
	Following the sentence structure but changing the words without giving credit.
	Using the other persons words or idea, in so that it ends up making up the majority of your work, even if credit is given.

In the majority of cases plagiarism can be easily avoided by just crediting where the information/ideas were obtained. There is also fair use rules in which work can be transformative of another work, which makes it its own work.

Reference: What is Plagiarism? - Plagiarism.org. (2021). Retrieved 3 March 2021, from https://www.plagiarism.org/article/what-is-plagiarism 

# Why should I avoid plagiarism?
There are many reasons as to why to avoid plagiarising someone’s work; it allows you to get better at doing whatever your plagiarising e.g., better at writing, you can live guilt free that you haven’t stolen someone else’s content, you won’t be fined or even in some cases sent to prison, you can’t always rely that there will be others content to plagiarise from, you won’t have the embarrassment of being caught plagiarising and explaining to your tutor, you will get a proper understanding of the material if you don’t plagiarise, you will most likely come up with some original ideas that could get you better grades anyway.

Reference: 20 Reasons to Understand Why You Should Not Plagiarize. (2021). Retrieved 4 March 2021, from https://www.paraphrasingonline.com/why-you-should-not-plagiarize/ 

