---
layout: post
title: "Journal #Six [RES701] - Academic Articles"
author: Hayden Williams
categories:
  - RES701
  - Journal
  - Academic Articles
image: assets/images/RES701-J6.png
featured: true
hidden: true
published: true
---

# Academic Articles

## Article One

https://journals.lww.com/nsca-jscr/Fulltext/2010/10000/The_Mechanisms_of_Muscle_Hypertrophy_and_Their.40.aspxLike

- Title and author(s) of the article
  The Mechanisms of Muscle Hypertrophy and Their Application to Resistance Training; Schoenfeld, Brad

- APA reference
  Schoenfeld, Brad J The Mechanisms of Muscle Hypertrophy and Their Application to Resistance Training, Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research: October 2010 - Volume 24 - Issue 10 - p 2857-2872
  doi: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e3181e840f3

- How you found the article and what keywords you used
  Searched for, "Muscle hypertrophy" in Google Scholar, recognised the author and clicked on the link, this then lead to the webpage/article

- What kind of article it is, ( journal paper, conference paper, masters thesis…..)
  This article is an academic journal paper.

- All the reasons that you think it is an academic article
  The reason that this article is an academic one is because it is published by: "The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, which is an offical research journal of the National Strength and Conditioning Association. So it is an article published by an actual academic journal. I can tell by the writing in the journal that there is a lot of jargon that definetly makes the author of the article seem very well versed in this field. There are also a lot of references to other works at the bottom, which also suggests that it is a well researched and looked into article; because they take thier referencing seriously it is most definetly an academic article. I also found the article on Google Scholar which only displays academic articles.

- How well it fits the ‘structure of an academic article’ that I described in my previous post
  The structure of the article fits the academic article type that was previously disclosed.

- How many references it has
  205 references

- How many citations it has (if you can find out)
  Can not find the number of citations

- For articles that you found online, the url of the article
  https://journals.lww.com/nsca-jscr/Fulltext/2010/10000/The_Mechanisms_of_Muscle_Hypertrophy_and_Their.40.aspxLike#O4-40-5

- Say whether you are interested in properly reading the article or not (and give some reasons!)
  I would definetly read the article as it is about something that I'm very fond of, weight lifting/muscle growth. I have already watched a lot of videos on YouTube that have referenced this particular article because of its particularly robust and interesting scientific findings. The author of the article is rather well known in the fitness industry for high quality and unbiased research. Even though I have already watched lots of videos on it, it would be interesting to actually fully read the source material that they have been referencing.

## Article Two

www.ijrra.net/Vol5issue1/IJRRA-05-01-26.pdf

- Title and author(s) of the article

- APA reference (give it your best shot!) (try using the ‘cite’ option on Google Scholar)

- how you found the article and what keywords you used

- what kind of article it is, ( journal paper, conference paper, masters thesis…..)

- all the reasons that you think it is an academic article

- how well it fits the ‘structure of an academic article’ that I described in my previous post

- how many references it has

- how many citations it has (if you can find out)

- for articles that you found online, the url of the article

- say whether you are interested in properly reading the article or not (and give some reasons!)
