---
layout: post
title: Blog Two
published: true
---

In this second week we took a look at truth, ontology, and epistemology.
# What is ontology? How is it relevant to research?
"Ontology:
1. A branch of metaphysics concerned with the nature and relations of being Ontology deals with abstract entities.
2. A particular theory about the nature of being or the kinds of things that have existence”.
Definition of ONTOLOGY. (2021). 

Retrieved 5 March 2021, from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ontology

Ontology is relevant to research as it deals with the nature of reality; this is relevant because it is how an individual interprets things, things including research. So, it is a way for people to convert what they are perceiving into fact or truth. It handles objectivism and subjectivism, both immensely useful in a research context; one can interpret facts/truths in either a subjective way, engaging prior biases, or in an objective way, observing free from past experiences. Being truly objective is almost impossible, but the closer to the objective you can become, in a research context, the better.
Objectivism “portrays the position that social entities exist in reality external to social actors concerned with their existence.” ("Ontology - Research-Methodology", 2021)
“Subjectivism, on the contrary, perceives that social phenomena are created from the perceptions and consequent actions of those social actors concerned with their existence.” ("Ontology - Research-Methodology", 2021) 

Ontology - Research-Methodology. (2021). Retrieved 5 March 2021, from https://research-methodology.net/research-philosophy/ontology/

# What is epistemology? How is it relevant to research?
"Epistemology:
The study or a theory of the nature and grounds of knowledge especially with reference to its limits and validity"

Definition of EPISTEMOLOGY. (2021). Retrieved 5 March 2021, from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/epistemology

Epistemology is relevant to research because it focuses on the sources of the research/knowledge. Epistemology worries about possibilities, nature, sources, and limitations of knowledge in a field. In layman’s terms it is pretty much what is known to be true, almost an opposite to ontology. There are four main categories of knowledge in research: Intuitive knowledge which is based on intuition, faith, and belief, feelings can heavily affect this knowledge; authoritarian knowledge, which relies on information from books, research, papers, experts, and supreme powers; logical knowledge which is the creation of knowledge through logical reason; lastly there is empirical knowledge which relies on objective facts that have been established and can be demonstrated. 

Epistemology - Research-Methodology. (2021). Retrieved 5 March 2021, from https://research-methodology.net/research-philosophy/epistomology/

# What is the connection between ontology and epistemology in a research context?
The simple difference between ontology and epistemology is that epistemology denotes the knowledge as perceived by people and ontology denotes knowledge itself. 
Another way of looking at it is epistemology investigates the perceived knowledge and its workings while ontology explains the inner working of actual knowledge. 
The connection between the two however, is that to understand where knowledge comes from you must first know what reality is. One can observe reality from different perspectives and through different lenses so the epistemology side of the research would be focused on collecting empirical data. The ontology side of the research is more people focused and takes into account anecdotal evidence and regards that research is made through the lenses of others, as such it cannot be empirical; the epistemology side can also focus on qualitative data in this case and processes it more broadly, from the empirical data gleaned from it.

lukewarren1, V. (2021). Ontology, epistemology and their connection in a research context. 

Retrieved 5 March 2021, from https://muv601lukewblog.wordpress.com/2017/08/02/ontology-epistemology-and-their-connection-in-a-research-context/

